<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>
    Career Connection
  </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="the-style-epub.css"/></head><body><div class="os-eoc os-career-connection-container" data-type="composite-page" data-uuid-key=".career-connection" id="composite-page-28">
  <h2 data-type="document-title">
    <span class="os-text">Career Connection</span>
  </h2>
  <section data-depth="1" id="fs-idm221438288" class="career-connection">
<p id="fs-idm225746096">Check the methods of communication you would most likely use for each of the following. Then write an explanation for why you have chosen the various forms of communication and how your choice had a link to the purpose of communicating with these different people.</p>
<div class="os-table"><table id="ch08tab04" class="unnumbered"><thead>
<tr><th scope="col"/><th scope="col">Face-to-Face</th><th scope="col">Email</th><th scope="col">Letter</th><th scope="col">Phone</th><th scope="col">Facebook</th><th scope="col">Instagram</th><th scope="col">Snapchat</th></tr>
</thead><tbody>
<tr>
<td>Parent</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Peer</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Sibling</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Boss</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Doctor</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Professor</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Waitress</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Office assistant</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
<tr><td>Significant other</td><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/><td/></tr>
</tbody></table><div class="os-caption-container">
  
<span class="os-title" data-type="title"><!-- no-selfclose --></span>

  <span class="os-divider"> </span>
</div>
</div>
<p id="fs-idm226201632">Take a close look at how you filled out the above chart. Do you find that there were definitely different purposes to how and why you used email instead of the phone, or Snapchat instead of a letter? It is good for you to reflect on your communication choices so that they are always most effective.</p>
<p id="fs-idm203312384">Look at the forms of communication you chose for “boss.” Perhaps you chose face-to-face and email as the two forms of communication you would use with your boss. Think through how those might have had an effect on the success of your communication with them. Now select two other forms of communication. Would you have been able to get the same response from your boss?</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>

</html>
<!-- # sourceMappingURL=e8668a14-9a7d-4d74-b58c-3681f8351224-at-df7c354-colon-5d23968b-dbf8-5745-98ea-3b54435eb7f9.xhtml.map -->