<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>
    Summary
  </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="the-style-epub.css"/></head><body><div class="os-eoc os-summary-container" data-type="composite-page" data-uuid-key=".summary" id="composite-page-12">
  <h2 data-type="document-title">
    <span class="os-text">Summary</span>
  </h2>
  <section data-depth="1" id="fs-idm501979840" class="summary">
<p id="fs-idm202788640">This chapter began by describing the personal guideposts for our planning: our values and our goals. After a discussion of the relationship between short- and long-term goals and the importance of tracking the progress of our goals, the chapter dove into the specifics of academic plans. Sections on degree types and the special considerations and requirements of certain programs should help you understand the type of opportunities that may be available to you and the types of questions you should research and ask. The section on planning your semesters provides you with the types of resources, people, and tools that you should look for when developing your academic plan. It also provides you an example planning grid to begin to draft a plan for your undergraduate studies. Keep in mind that you may need to make changes to your plan as you follow it. You can refer back to the section on managing change to consider how you might respond. Finally, the chapter concludes with a section on asking for help. Recall that others can both help you plan and hold you accountable to your plan, but only you set your values, so stick to them!</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>

</html>
<!-- # sourceMappingURL=e8668a14-9a7d-4d74-b58c-3681f8351224-at-df7c354-colon-b9a6b1a0-4e10-55fe-8139-b130652e2cad.xhtml.map -->