<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>
    Where do you go from here?
  </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="the-style-epub.css"/></head><body><div class="os-eoc os-where-go-container" data-type="composite-page" data-uuid-key=".where-go" id="composite-page-34">
  <h2 data-type="document-title">
    <span class="os-text">Where do you go from here?</span>
  </h2>
  <section data-depth="1" id="fs-idm360932336" class="where-go">
<p id="fs-idm363978880">This chapter touched on many elements of civility and diversity, and mentioned a wide array of groups, identities, and populations. But the chapter certainly did not explore every concept or reflect every group you may encounter. In a similar way, you can’t know everything about everyone, but you can build cultural competency and understanding to make people feel included and deepen your abilities and relationships.</p>
<p id="fs-idm351469296">Sometimes learning about one group or making one person feel comfortable can be as important as addressing a larger population. To that end, consider researching or discussing one of the following topics to increase your level of civility and understanding:</p>
<ul id="fs-idm359626336">
<li>Appropriate terminology and ways to address members of certain populations. For example, ways to properly describe people with certain disabilities, or discuss issues around racial or gender identity.</li>
<li>Discussions or debates related to civility and intersectionality, such as whether “Latinx” should be used instead of “Latino/Latina,” or whether certain sports team mascots can be considered offensive.</li>
<li>Major historical figures or events related to a certain group.</li>
<li>Academic majors and research centers/groups related to aspects of diversity.</li>
<li>Historical events at your college or in your city related to civil rights.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</div>
</body>

</html>
<!-- # sourceMappingURL=e8668a14-9a7d-4d74-b58c-3681f8351224-at-df7c354-colon-d4d8d87d-04c5-537d-8b21-62dd3c64c521.xhtml.map -->