<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>
    Career Connection
  </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="the-style-epub.css"/></head><body><div class="os-eoc os-career-connection-container" data-type="composite-page" data-uuid-key=".career-connection" id="composite-page-32">
  <h2 data-type="document-title">
    <span class="os-text">Career Connection</span>
  </h2>
  <section data-depth="1" id="fs-idm362293088" class="career-connection">
<p id="fs-idm334518352">Keisha went to a temp agency to sign up for part-time work. The person in charge there gave her several tests on office skills. She checked Keisha’s typing speed, her ability to handle phone calls, and her writing skills. Keisha also took a grammar test and a test about how to handle disputes in the office. The tester also had Keisha answer questions about whether it was OK to take home office supplies and other appropriate things to do and not to do.</p>
<p id="fs-idm347590432">The tester told Keisha that she scored very well on the evaluations, but she never called Keisha back for a job or even an interview. Keisha knows that she presented herself well, but wonders if she was not called back because she wears her hair in dreadlocks or because she has been told that her name sounds African American?</p>
<p id="fs-idm343463248">Reflection questions:</p>
<ul id="fs-idm344883088">
<li>Can this student say that she was discriminated against?</li>
<li>What would you do to determine why you were not called back for a job?</li>
<li>Should Keisha ask about how her name and appearance were received?</li>
</ul>
</section>
</div>
</body>

</html>
<!-- # sourceMappingURL=e8668a14-9a7d-4d74-b58c-3681f8351224-at-df7c354-colon-31849865-8a7c-5bfe-81ed-f7967191df24.xhtml.map -->