<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>2.7
 
The Hidden Curriculum
</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="the-style-epub.css"/></head><body><div data-type="page" id="page_d28cd5c0-41bc-4ed5-8f82-fd538239c08f" class="chapter-content-module"><h2 data-type="document-title" id="page_d28cd5c0-41bc-4ed5-8f82-fd538239c08f_titlecreatedbycookbook"><span class="os-number">2.7</span>
<span class="os-divider"> </span>
<span data-type="" class="os-text">The Hidden Curriculum</span>
</h2>

<div class="os-table os-unstyled-container"><table id="fs-idm244371072" class="unstyled unnumbered"><tbody>
  <tr>
     <td data-align="right">Estimated completion time: 7 minutes.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table></div>

<p id="fs-idm202759024"><strong>Questions to consider:</strong></p>

<ul id="fs-idm218462880">
<li>What is the hidden or invisible curriculum?</li>
<li>How can I work within the hidden curriculum to prevent negative results?</li>
</ul>

<p id="fs-idm213740384">The <em data-effect="italics">hidden curriculum</em> is a phrase used to cover a wide variety of circumstances at school that can influence learning and affect your experience. Sometimes called the invisible curriculum, it varies by institution and can be thought of as a set of unwritten rules or expectations.</p>

<p id="fs-idm227644896"><strong>Situation:</strong> According to your syllabus, your history professor is lecturing on the chapter that covers the stock market crash of 1929 on Tuesday of next week.</p>

<p id="fs-idm203795392">Sounds pretty straightforward and common. Your professor lectures on a topic and you will be there to hear it. However, there are some unwritten rules, or hidden curriculum, that are not likely to be communicated. Can you guess what they may be?</p>

<ul id="fs-idm188089488">
<li>What is an unwritten rule about what you should be doing before attending class? </li>
<li>What is an unwritten rule about what you should be doing in class?</li>
<li>What is an unwritten rule about what you should be doing after class?</li>
<li>What is an unwritten rule if you are not able to attend that class?</li>
</ul>

<p id="fs-idm224591872">Some of your answers could have included the following:</p>



<div class="os-table"><table id="ch02tab08"><tbody>
<tr><td>Before class: </td><td><em data-effect="italics">read the assigned chapter, take notes, record any questions you have about the reading</em></td></tr>
<tr><td>During class: </td><td><em data-effect="italics">take detailed notes, ask critical thinking or clarifying questions, avoid distractions, bring your </em> <em data-effect="italics">book and your reading notes</em></td></tr>
<tr><td>After class: </td><td><em data-effect="italics">reorganize your notes in relation to your other notes, start the studying process by testing </em> <em data-effect="italics">yourself on the material, make an appointment with your professor if you are not clear on a concept</em></td></tr>
<tr><td>Absent: </td><td><em data-effect="italics">communicate with the professor, get notes from a classmate, make sure you did not miss </em> <em data-effect="italics">anything important in your notes</em> </td></tr>
</tbody></table><div class="os-caption-container">
  <span class="os-title-label">Table </span>
  <span class="os-number">2.8</span>
  <span class="os-divider"> </span>
  <span class="os-caption">
  <span data-type="title">
    <!-- no-selfclose -->
  </span>
</span>
</div>
</div>

<p id="fs-idm226153280">The expectations before, during, and after class, as well as what you should do if you miss class, are often unspoken because many professors assume you already know and do these things or because they feel you should figure them out on your own. Nonetheless, some students struggle at first because they don’t know about these habits, behaviors, and strategies. But once they learn them, they are able to meet them with ease.</p>

<p id="fs-idm220337152">While the previous example may seem obvious once they’ve been pointed out, most instances of the invisible curriculum are complex and require a bit of critical thinking to uncover. What follows are some common but often overlooked examples of this invisible curriculum.</p>

<p id="fs-idm219127856">One example of a hidden curriculum could be found in the beliefs of your professor. Some professors may refuse to reveal their personal beliefs to avoid your writing toward their bias rather than presenting a cogent argument of your own. Other professors may be outspoken about their beliefs to force you to consider and possibly defend your own position. As a result, you may be influenced by those opinions which can then influence your learning, but not as an official part of your study.</p>

<p id="fs-idm204741728">Other examples of how this hidden curriculum might not always be so easily identified can be found in classroom arrangements or even scheduling. To better understand this, imagine two different classes on the exact same subject and taught by the same instructor. One class is held in a large lecture hall and has over 100 students in it, while the other meets in a small classroom and has fewer than 20 students. In the smaller class, there is time for all of the students to participate in discussions as a learning activity, and they receive the benefit of being able to talk about their ideas and the lessons through direct interaction with each other and the professor. In the larger class, there is simply not enough time for all 100 students to each discuss their thoughts. On the flip side, most professors who teach lecture classes use technology to give them constant feedback on how well students understand a given subject. If the data suggests more time should be spent, these professors discover this in real time and can adapt the class accordingly.</p>

<p id="fs-idm225947024">Another instance where class circumstances might heavily influence student learning could be found in the class schedule. If the class was scheduled to meet on Mondays and Wednesdays and the due date for assignments was always on Monday, those students would benefit from having the weekend to finalize their work before handing it in. If the class met on a different day, students might not have as much free time just before handing in the assignment. The obvious solution would be better planning and time management to complete assignments in advance of due dates, but nonetheless, conditions caused by scheduling may still impact student learning.</p>

<section data-depth="1" id="fs-idm221765696"><h3 data-type="title">Working Within the Hidden Curriculum</h3>
<p id="fs-idm235818800">The first step in dealing with the hidden curriculum is to recognize it and understand how it can influence your learning. After any specific situation has been identified, the next step is to figure out how to work around the circumstances to either take advantage of any benefits or to remove any roadblocks.</p>
<p id="fs-idm226014912">To illustrate this, here are some possible solutions to the situations given as examples earlier in this section:</p>
<p id="fs-idm222799264">Prevailing Opinions—Simply put, you are going to encounter instructors and learning activities that you sometimes agree with and sometimes do not. The key is to learn from them regardless. In either case, take ownership of your learning and even make an effort to learn about other perspectives, even if it is only for your own education on the matter. There is no better time to expose yourself to other opinions and philosophies than in college. In fact, many would say that this is a significant part of the college experience. With a growth mindset, it is easy to view everything as a learning opportunity.</p>
<p id="fs-idm235404368">Classroom Circumstances—These kinds of circumstances often require a more structured approach to turn the situation to your advantage, but they also usually have the most obvious solutions. In the example of the large class, you might find yourself limited in the ability to participate in classroom discussions because of so many other students. The way around that would be to speak to several classmates and create your own discussion group. You could set up a time to meet, or you could take a different route by using technology such as an online discussion board, a Skype session, or even a group text. Several of the technologically based solutions might even be better than an in-class discussion since you do not all have to be present at the same time. The discussion can be something that occurs all week long, giving everyone the time to think through their ideas and responses.</p>
<p id="fs-idm221601904">Again, the main point is to first spot those things in the hidden curriculum that might put your learning at a disadvantage and devise a solution that either reduces the negative impact or even becomes a learning advantage.</p>
</section>








 
 
  </div></body>

</html>
<!-- # sourceMappingURL=e8668a14-9a7d-4d74-b58c-3681f8351224-at-df7c354-colon-d28cd5c0-41bc-4ed5-8f82-fd538239c08f.xhtml.map -->