<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>
    Where do you go from here?
  </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="the-style-epub.css"/></head><body><div class="os-eoc os-where-go-container" data-type="composite-page" data-uuid-key=".where-go" id="composite-page-30">
  <h2 data-type="document-title">
    <span class="os-text">Where do you go from here?</span>
  </h2>
  <section data-depth="1" id="fs-idm221539072" class="where-go">
<p id="fs-idm217881808">Staying aware of how and when you communicate is important to every aspect of your life. As you learned throughout this chapter, there are many variables that come into play when you communicate. Most of the time none of us really think about all of these before we send out some kind of communication. Perhaps you would like to learn a little more about how to be mindful of your methods of communication. It will serve you well throughout your life.</p>
<p id="fs-idm224530784">Choose a topic that interests you from the list below. Then search for sources that inform this topic and create an annotated bibliography that would be useful to someone who is interested in doing further research.</p>
<ul id="fs-idm240775168">
<li>Communication using social media can be detrimental to mental health.</li>
<li>It is imperative that you pay attention to cultural norms when trying to communicate with others.</li>
<li>Listening is important to successful communication, and there are steps that can be taken to hone listening skills.</li>
<li>Men and women are said to communicate differently.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</div>
</body>

</html>
<!-- # sourceMappingURL=e8668a14-9a7d-4d74-b58c-3681f8351224-at-df7c354-colon-468045e5-b1b3-5057-b430-66842313934a.xhtml.map -->