<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>
    Summary
  </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="the-style-epub.css"/></head><body><div class="os-eoc os-summary-container" data-type="composite-page" data-uuid-key=".summary" id="composite-page-31">
  <h2 data-type="document-title">
    <span class="os-text">Summary</span>
  </h2>
  <section data-depth="1" id="fs-idm366748720" class="summary">
<p id="fs-idm347406864">Understanding diversity, especially in the context of our country’s history, is an important part of being an engaged citizen who can help us to adapt to a changing world. Diversity goes hand in hand with the concepts of equity and inclusion, which increase the chances of equal opportunity and representation. Sometimes creating inclusive communities upsets the social order with which people are familiar. Change can be difficult, and people are passionate. These passions can disrupt communities and communication with uncivil behavior, or people can “fight fair” and use strategies that allow for the smooth exchange of ideas.</p>
<p id="fs-idm367013040">Everyone has a personal identity made up of various aspects and experiences—intersectionality. Some elements of identity place people in a diversity category. Some categories are expansive and well understood; others are new and may face scrutiny. Policies and laws have been put in place to protect underrepresented citizens from discrimination. These standards are constantly being challenged to make sure that they allow for the shifting demographics of the United States and shifting values of its citizens.</p>
<p id="fs-idm365772048">Cultural competency, which includes our ability to adapt to diversity, is a valuable skill in our communities and workplaces. The more culturally competent we are, the more we can help safeguard diversity and make equitable and inclusive connections on a global scale.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>

</html>
<!-- # sourceMappingURL=e8668a14-9a7d-4d74-b58c-3681f8351224-at-df7c354-colon-9b2560bf-4a3a-5026-a956-6dc4c229eb95.xhtml.map -->